COLLEGE ICINGS

By LEONARD M. FOWLE

Something new has been added to
campaigning in Greater Boston —
nament involving the four top teams from the local
ranks. . . . Some one has dubbed it the “Bean Pot’
Tourney, but as there have been objectors to the title, *
the name may be changed before the sextets take the
ice. . . . The title under which it goes is, however, a
minor item. ... Far more important is the fact™
Boston College, Boston University, Harvard, and
Northeastern have been able to get together to ac- ie
complish what Harvard’s Cooney Weiland has called —*
“The most important step taken ir

in many years for
the advancement of college hockey in Boston!”

the college hockey
an invitation tour-

et ae

+ koe * 4
Weiland is not talking through his hat when he
states any of the entrants can win... . The 1952-53
season is still ae young but has already produced
not 4 few upsets — Brown’s triumph over B. C., the
ending of a long B. U. winning streak by a sub-par
Yale six, and Northeastern’s split with highly rated
Princeton. . . . Harvard is the only major team in
the East which has yet to taste defeat and the Crim-
son, playing only two games, has been tied by Boston
University.

Kk ke

When the season opened a month ago, most fang
would have rated Northeastern as the No, 4 outfit
among the entrants in this tournament, ... Yet, when
the teams face off for the first round matches on Frida:
night, Capt. John “Buddy” Purcell’s Huskies will
boast a win-loss record which many critics call the
best in the East... . It is a 5-1 mark made against
rade “A” competition, numbering as it does triumphs
over Brown, Princeton, and Yale,

bel MN, Fe

That Northeastern should carry such a fine record
into an early season tournament is little short of as-
tounding! . . . Over the years, the adage in the press
box has been — “The Huskies are traditionally slow
starters, but look out for Herb Gallagher’s team when
February rolls around!” . . , The past two seasons
were typical examples —in both, the Huskies lost
game after game in December and early January and
then became giant-killers over the last half of the
route. . . . The tournabout this year seems to stem
from the fact that, although the uskies could hardly
be called a dishrocriog outfit, forwards like Dick

)

b Lally, J i
Will Roman, and Bill Doherty have bon Yinding

an early lead to work :
- « . A goal or two lead is all Mr, Goal-Tender” ee
self Beats ;

8 ston University and Harvard prevail in
the Peete matches, their recent er eos
tie should prove a great “come-on” for Satw ie
finale. ... The season’s advance dope hinted the
Scarlet and Crimson would be New England’s top
teams with R. P. I. and Princeton their chief challengers
for N. C. A. A. honors. . . . However, the first, meet-
ing between the teams settled little. . . . The Be se
had an edge in first period play, but Harvard took over
to dominate the second session. . . . The third stanza
was even and the Crimson seemed to have a slight
territorial advantage in overtime but could not score.
+ ; + However, the Crimson’s ability to tie the Terriers
with Dick Clasby, Norm Wood, and Jim Colt on the
sidelines was a feather in Harvard’s cap.

+s, ($e

Don’t be surprised if Boston College presents an
altered lineup for the tournament. ;. - B. C. fans
were pretty disconsolate at the Eagles’ showing against
Brown, but they would do well to withhold judgment.
- . . More than once in the past, ‘“Snooks’” Kelley
with a shift or two of personnel has transformed a loser
into a winner — remember the about-face of the Ma-
roon and Gold in a tourney here two years ago, when,
after losing to Michigan, the Eagles came back 24
hours later to trounce Colorado! .. . ’Tis rumored
Capt. Wimpy Burtnett may go to defense and Frank
O’Grady to the first line. . . . If that transpires, Frank
should get a new nickname, “Mr. Shuttle’ , for he has
commuted steadily between the forward line and de-
fense since he first donned a Maroon and Gold jersey!

if i +

: =p
42S me

As there is no argument over Ray Picard’s position as
the No. 1 goalie in the tournament, few will debate the

8 is the out-
lege hockey.
times in his
coring in the

C Is away to a
Eastern scoring race with nine goals

* ek kk

Most of the personnel on the Eagle, Huskie, and
Terrier sextets were around a year ago, but not so in
Harvard’s case. . . . The Crimson, which alono of the
quartet did not use freshmen last season, has a big
sophomore quota. . . . One of this group, the much-
heralded big Ed Mrkonich, will miss the current tourney
to be best man at his brother’s wedd h

second line; Ned Alm: isi i

ae Maker aie a Eee tt who ma,

Crimson. goalie; and a quar

cludes Scott Cooledge (not to

Mahoney
Ahoney, and Dave Harvey. . . ’, Look these hoya

over, more will be heard from them this season, 4

+e km

The winners of Frida: night's B °
versity vs, Northeastern’ and fon Colgan te Se

Boston College vs, Har-
lovers

vard) will meet on Saturday night at 9, , 13 Oe
will play a 7 o’clock consolation contest... , It is
more than likely She pres will name an all-

immediately following Betarday's

team to be announ

